Hey all, if I sound a bit out of it, it's because I'm recording this on Monday afternoon
while I'm still sick with a sore throat. It feels like it's coming down, but I still
might sound odd, I certainly still feel odd. Because of this, even though I'm recording
on Monday, you're probably not going to see the video until Tuesday.
Last night, I was watching Adam and Sitch's weekly Sunday show. This time around, they
were talking about Lindsay Ellis' recent video about getting cancelled, where she goes
over all of the cancellable things she's done and gives her side of each story. As
always, Adam and Sitch do a great job at picking apart the train wreck of hypocrisy and narcissism
for, uh, 11 hours. But the most telling part of Lindsay's video is where she states that
she cannot admit the broader left has a problem with cancelling people, because labelling
the problem empowers her ideological opponents.
A friend of mine named it The Beast, the name for the sphere that we all live under but
don't acknowledge. And over the last few years, I have had so many of my colleagues,
all of them women, people of color, trans people, queer people, or some combination
of the above, voice to me the constant anxiety that they live with about maybe saying something
wrong that will get them on the bad side of their own communities. Every thought is a
hostage situation. Is this the tweet that's going to sink me? So what do we call it? What
is the name for this unspoken, unacknowledged culture of fear where we all know that one
misstep can ruin our lives? This social media culture where we participate in the public
shaming one day and become chained to the pillory the next. We can't even talk about
it because The Beast does not have a name. If we admit that this is a problem, then the
right will just take it and run with it and use it to increase their own power, same as
they did with cancel, same as they did with woke, same as they did with fake news. If
it has a name, then it has power, so it is a discussion that cannot be had. And so we
do not have it. We say cancel culture doesn't exist and ignore this disease. Pretend it
isn't doing real harm. In other words, the intersectionalists have cultivated the cancel
culture environment. The conservatives have correctly identified it as a problem. And
so the intersectionalists can't actually do anything except take it from their own
audiences in order to never agree with the conservatives on anything. And yes, the intersectionalists
are the ones who have cultivated cancel culture. A core point of Lindsay's video was something
like, cancel culture is when your own community destroys you, which is just an absurd statement.
Prominent controversial conservatives like Alex Jones or Tommy Robinson were not destroyed by
their own fans, but instead by progressives screeching that their opinions were too vile
to ever allow to be spoken. And then that sentiment came for regular non-controversial
conservatives, then centrists and liberals, and now it's finally affecting the big tent left,
and they're not happy about it. One of Lindsay's friends, ContraPoints, pointed out on Twitter
that there is a parallel between what she calls Diet Nazi Internet, which is literally
just the people who troll and laugh on Chan sites, kiwi farms, and Encyclopedia Dramatica,
and Twitter Wokescolds who anthologize a person's entire history of misdeeds and embarrassments.
I have some sympathy for this position. Myself, Lindsay, and Contra are all old enough to
have experienced our formative years offline and without social media. A lot of my embarrassing
childhood and teenage moments are not immortalized as tweets or videos, to be brought up a decade
later to destroy my adult life, but are simply hazy memories and funny stories. Or not so funny,
as the case may be. However, ContraPoints believes that the parallel she draws means
that cancel culture is not unique to the left. On the surface this makes a lot of sense. It may
even have been an opinion I once held at one point, but I don't think so anymore. She brings
up Gamergate as an example of right wing cancel culture, and again on the surface I see why.
It was an angry group of gamers on the internet, yelling about how individuals within the subcultures
of indie game development and games journalism were acting unethically, and therefore deserve
to be out of a job. To compare, today's cancelling events are angry groups of progressives on the
internet, yelling about how whatever celebrity or e-celebrity has said something bigoted,
or defended the wrong person or take, or simply had an accusation even a false one flung at them,
and therefore also deserve to be out of a job. But you can already see the difference, right?
The core people involved in Gamergate actually acted unethically, and their customers responded
with a consumer boycott. It's always seemed very strange to me that a rabidly anti-capitalist
political camp would turn around and decry large swaths of normal, everyday,
dare I say proletariat people engaging in a consumer boycott against the owners of capital,
and instead actually side with those owners. Meanwhile most of today's cancel events don't
seem to involve any kind of actual gamergate style ethical breaches. Piers Morgan was cancelled when
he said that Meghan Markle's son couldn't become a prince, not due to racism, but due to the current
laws of succession. Gina Carano was cancelled for a long list of tiny reasons regarding pronouns and
tweets and whatever, but the big one was saying that today's mob mentality went too far, comparing
it to Nazi Germany. Tucker Carlson seems to face a cancelling event once a year like clockwork.
Dr. Seuss was cancelled over the content of books that are considered racist today,
but were acceptable for the time period, and funnily enough, Disney has not been cancelled
for the same thing regarding their old movies. Gabb and Parler were cancelled after the January
6th Capitol riots, despite Facebook being a larger hub for the organization of that event.
Troy Levitt was invited to resign from his job, working on the game Hogwarts Legacy,
when people noticed he ran an anti-SJW YouTube channel back in the day. Keemstar,
Pewdiepie and JonTron have all been cancelled multiple times. The list goes on, from Hollywood
celebrities, to online personalities, to companies and products. The difference between these events
and Gamergate is clear to me. These don't seem to involve any legal or ethical breaches,
but rather differences of opinion over politics or philosophy or even art. I think this is why
the pro-Jared situation felt different than your usual cancelling event, even though pro-Jared was
obviously innocent in the end, and it's because he was actually accused of something that,
if it were true, would have been a real violation and not something trumped up.
Compare these two scenarios. In the first, a small YouTuber named Trillium, with less than
5,000 subs, makes a video about how she doesn't like The Last of Us Part 2. Her take goes viral
with both fans of Naughty Dog and progressives plugged into the culture war, and she catches so
much flak that people dox her and she deletes her online presence and goes into hiding. In the
second, Asmongold on stream goes over the blatant racism of one of Blizzard Entertainment's writers,
Madeleine Roux, while noticing that she may be related to the senior vice president of HR. His
fans notice a surprising amount of similar racism and sexism from other writers at Blizzard. In the
first scenario, a person has an opinion about something innocuous that runs counter to the
mainline progressive narrative, and they get harassed for it by a crowd of people largely
unrelated to them. In the second scenario, a progressive within a position of power acts
unethically and hypocritically, and their own consumer base shines a light on their bad
behavior. The first scenario is cancel culture, because it's done by people wholly unrelated to
the target for completely asinine reasons. The second scenario is accountability, because it's
done by the people who consume the product created by the target, holding the belief that their own
subculture is being weaponized against them by those in power. Of course, if you're a progressive,
there seems to be all the motivation in the world to conflate these two things. A non-lefty gets
canceled for ridiculous reasons? It's just consequence culture. It's accountability. You
did something bad and deserve it for sure. A lefty gets held accountable for their own shitty actions?
Oh no, cancel culture is at it again? I'm not at fault, it's those evil goobergators. But
muddying the waters between these two things obscures their most important difference. While
it's true that consequence culture, that accountability, that the consumer boycott is apolitical,
as ContraPoints pointed out, cancel culture itself is specifically a product of progressivism. This
is why whenever somebody is canceled over something benign, like both Lindsay Ellis and ContraPoints
have been, it is always by their own progressive audiences. And in fact, whenever anybody of any
political persuasion is canceled over something benign, it's always by a progressive mob. The
people who wish to wield the justice of the mob against anybody on a whim have purposefully blurred
the boundaries between canceling events and consumer boycotts. And with that merger now
complete, you need not think about anything other than the politics of the parties involved. For
example, was it cancel culture going too far, or just accountability in action when Jimmy
Galligan held onto a three-second clip of a white teenage girl saying the n-word while singing along
to a song, only to finally release it years later when that girl was an adult in order to foul her
university admissions? Well, in the mindset of the progressive, we only need to understand the
target's politics to know if it was deserved, or even worse, her race or gender. Now that we've
stripped away the meaningful difference between canceling events and consumer boycotts, tribalism
is all we have left. You can apply this framework to any event. Why did Justin Trudeau get away with
blackface? Why did Sarah Jong not immediately lose her journalist job over old racist tweets
when Alexi McCammond lost hers over her old racist tweets? Why did a literary agent get fired solely
over owning a parlor account? The answer to each of these questions is, what tribe are you a part
of? The problem with countering this type of conflation is that it can be really hard to
discern the truth based on who's presenting the evidence. This video went viral last week,
and it's an excellent example of what I mean. Tariq Wash Yoaz Nasheed posted,
A white Holiday Inn Express worker has a nervous breakdown after he got scolded by a black customer
because of a mistake in the reservation system.
Did you get mad and hit the computer? I'm sure you're on camera, right? I'm sure you're on camera.
So this is the type of people that have working here. Wow. You gotta be kidding me.
Wow. And a lot of people lost it on Tariq for posting what is clearly a man having a nervous
breakdown and making it about race. But a lot of people is not everybody. Somebody make sure this
white boy don't have a gun. Would he have done that if the man wasn't black? He would have fixed
the issue and moved on like he probably did countless of times before then. Black people
are never afforded the grace of a public mental health meltdown. This man has mental health issues
and shouldn't be in a public facing job. The black man who filmed feared for his safety.
Hold on a second guys. I'm sick. I'm trying to record this video and somebody royally fucked up
the SFO Minecraft server. I was mid recording and I had to go fix it. It took like an hour.
This is going to be a big audio file. If you didn't know we had a community Minecraft server,
well now you do. Join us sometime. In any case, from the progressive BIPOC lens,
Tariq and the others are absolutely correct. This is a black person fearing for their lives
and recording a potential white aggressors meltdown. However, from the progressive,
ableist and queer centric lens, all of these people objecting to Tariq Nasheed are absolutely
right too. This is a neuro atypical gay man being harassed by a privileged healthy straight
oppressor who is about to use his own oppression to ruin his life. But neither of these are the
correct lens to use. They each filter out important information. The first lens implies that if the
races of the person recording the video and the hotel clerk were reversed, then suddenly it would
be objectionable to record him. And Tariq would absolutely say so if that were the case. The
second lens implies that it would be totally fine to cancel this person if he didn't have his mental
problems. And yes, this is exactly how it's coming off to progressives who find themselves
prioritizing race and losing that clash on this event. If he was just a normal white guy who
wasn't mentally retarded or a gay freak or whatever, nobody would give a fuck. He would
lose his job, and everyone would agree with Tariq. It is the use of these lenses that turns
everything into a premeditated calculated strike with no room for the actual humanity of the people
involved. Is no one going to point out that the reason the guy smashed the computer on his head
is because he knew that the black guy was trying to frame him as a racist and destroy his life?
That's the new strategy. If you can't defend yourself with words, just have an autistic mental
breakdown. The quartering started up a GoFundMe in support of this guy, which has gained a lot of
traction. But judging by his Reddit post history, he doesn't seem to want it. Since the event,
he's been slowly spiraling into worse and worse depression, with the family of the guy who recorded
him harassing him at his workplace, which he quit, as well as his home, threatening his life. And
because legitimate consumer boycott has been merged with cancel culture, the only tool the
progressive has left to judge whether or not this event was justice served or justice aborted is
which progressive lens you think it's more appropriate to look through. Meanwhile, the
individualist position rejects all of these lenses and simply says treat people like individuals. It
doesn't matter if one's black and one's white. It doesn't matter if one has mental problems and the
other doesn't. I mean, it might matter in terms of understanding why he had that kind of reaction,
but it doesn't matter in terms of understanding whether or not he deserves to be dragged through
the mud. And yes, for the progressive, it most certainly comes down to this type of tribalism
rather than any actual interest in real wrongdoing. One can be strongly against a cancel culture and
still support the cancellation of dangerous psychopaths. And who defines the psychopath Sam
Harris? Would that be the progressives by any chance? And again, yes, the muddying effect I've
been describing is real. Cancel culture in 2020 is exactly what political correctness was in 1990.
It's a thing conservatives made up so they can pretend they are speaking truth to power and
fighting for free speech when they are actually just being awful people. No, what's actually
happening is that when people speak truth to your power, when they advocate for speech you don't
like, the only thing you can do is conflate them with the idea of just being awful. Honestly,
what a lot of this behavior stems from is simple narcissism. If you watch Lindsay Ellis's hour 40
non-apology video, you can clearly see it. The whole thing is filled with digs and backstabs
and humble brags and fake ass apologies. These are people who view themselves as the hero while
simultaneously celebrating the shutting down of all opinions that go against them, the firing of
all people who do not march in lockstep with them, and the subversion of all organizations
and platforms to suit their needs. These are people who shriek bloody murder about the injustices of
cancel culture when their Patreon is raking in $18,000 a month rather than the $20,000 they're
accustomed to. All the while gleefully getting the assistant manager at Payless Shoes fired
because he's sexist for posting on his private Twitter account that he doesn't like the new
Star Wars movies. If progressives actually thought anybody I've talked about in this video has done
anything wrong and they were actually interested in justice, they would talk to them. But it's not
about peace and understanding, it's about control and dominance. Progressives are pushing an anti
hierarchy philosophy and when your average rank-and-file progressive turns on the progressives
at the top of the hierarchy, they're shocked it finally came for them. Here's where we are now.
Your average person is no longer comfortable sharing their political views. This is not a
good turn of events. Civil society survives when disagreements happen at the ballot box and during
a debate. It crumbles when they happen in the streets and on the battlefield. But that is the
future we're moving towards. A growing chorus of people who have survived the many repressive
governments around the world have all been saying that what they see in cancel culture is the
beginnings of a totalitarian regime. It's no surprise to me therefore that ContraPoints went
on a podcast recently to advocate for Maoist style struggle sessions where a person accused
goes through a revolutionary tribunal where they get raked over the coals by those who object to
their past behavior so that they may come out the other side as a redeemed comrade. It feels like
there is a cultural void when it comes to what penance and absolution looks like. The options
are excommunication from society or no consequences whatsoever. Yeah I've actually had the thought
that it would be better to have something like internet panels of restorative justice. Yes. And
I know that probably sounds like super dystopian but I would argue it's way less dystopian than
what we currently have. Like but if people who had you know so suppose someone's going through
a canceling event I think we all know what that means at this point right. Oh the tweet is trending
we're talking about it right. If we were able to kind of have I don't know like a live stream or
something with a peacekeeper or mediator where like the person who is accused is sort of able
to sort of I don't know face the people the group of people that's maybe hurt by this and like able
to kind of try to understand where each other is coming from if we can see if this you know give
some percent get try to get some sense for if the person who's you know who did blackface 20 years
ago has actually moved on or not do they understand why this is bad like is you know have they done
things in the time sense that would sort of be the opposite values of that in action. It's an
online revolutionary tribunal. Yeah. And you know we'll have we'll have judges. Powdered wigs we
gotta bring back the powdered wigs. We can do a little camp. Maybe it's like the three judges are
all dressed differently and one has a powdered wig and another is wearing the the Mao outfit.
This is the end point of the progressives cancel culture. They are fundamentally hypocritical and
they want to affect everybody except themselves. However now that they're learning that it cannot
not affect them they want to implement a dystopian apology process where the progressive gets to
self-flagellate for the benefit of all for the crime of making a rape joke in 2009 and as for
the unrepentant what do they get executed I mean they did in Maoist China they did during the
French Revolution that's not going to happen now at least not online are they getting deleted off
the internet maybe but all tech is a thing now Sarah Silverman properly identified that because
progressives don't offer a path to redemption regular people are simply abandoning the
progressive idea of justice and finding kinship elsewhere that's what bit shoot and mines and
parlor are part of what I've been talking about here can be more properly explained in the article
beating back cancel culture by Pedro Domingos in it he outlines a list of things you should
do during a canceling event find your friends pick your battles know what to expect don't back down
don't let them make it about you hold the moral high ground mock them mercilessly don't let their
narrative outrun yours goad them into overreaching turn their weapons against them use the courts
bring administrators around don't antagonize educate get the majority on your side and most
importantly remember that most cancellation attempts end in failure if you're getting
canceled you don't have to do all of these things but you do have to do most of them and really the
most important one is remembering that most cancellation attempts end in failure how many
times has Lindsay Ellis been canceled before she made this video like 15 most of them did nothing
at all and that is how you have to approach getting canceled it can only truly stop you if
you let it stop you I'm not saying you're gonna come out of it unscathed you may lose a friend or
a job and that sucks but you can make new friends or land new jobs but if you capitulate to them you
only make the losses more severe or even worse you begin to inflict them on yourself when I look
at Domingos list I realize it's the complete opposite vision of what contra points espouse
in that podcast with her struggle sessions the point of a struggle session is to lose to the
mob so that you can be taught the lesson you need to learn the point of Domingos list is to oppose
the mob because you don't agree there's anything that they can teach you and you know as dystopian
as it sounds part of me loves the idea of attending an internet struggle session I would not mind the
opportunity to tell all of these self-important losers off to their face to completely reject
their conception of justice to let them know that I do not regret any of my past actions and to shove
their opportunities of forgiveness up their cloacas I have no need to be absolved of my
crimes by progressives vosh style because I have not committed any crimes at all yeah I do just
want the opportunity to shit on the whole thing but talking seriously no internet struggle sessions
are an awful dystopian idea from a group of people who cannot conceive of actually living
in freedom cancel culture is just rebranded witch-hunting and it's one repressive practice
of many that progressives have brought back from our past racism and sexism are okay again if it's
directed towards white men sexuality is bad again not because of the conservative calling it
ungodly but the progressive calling it objectifying stalking is okay again as long as you call it
stanning being gay or trans is a choice again because the idea of immutable characteristics
is now biological essentialism fighting fascism is now simply making a snarky post online it's
somebody your favorite youtuber said is a Nazi and when you hit that send button it's almost like
being there on D day freedom of expression is encouraged but only if living your best life means
saying and doing things that progressives approve of every single problem I've listed off is a
progressive problem and really there's no progress in it these are all rollbacks not advancements
cancel culture as well as contra points is a struggle session solution for it are just
modern-day drumhead trials there's no justice here nothing's improved nobody's wrongs are
righted nobody deserves the punishments they get so when the mob comes for you tell them to fuck
off even if they're right tell them to fuck off because you can privately take whatever legitimate
criticism some of them may have without allowing them to destroy you don't be so pigheaded to
assume that any person who speaks against you is out to destroy you that's a fast track to
spoonieville but also don't let them use their honest attempt to point out a problem as a vector
to actually harm you either this is advice that the progressive will never truly be able to accept
because in blurring the boundaries between unjust cancellation and just accountability they've also
blurred the boundaries between those who would point out their blind spots and those who would
attempt to destroy them they have made it so that they can never again self-improve through a
friend's honest criticism because that friend and now appears to them as the villain moving in for
but here we're individualists not progressives and that problem isn't our problem we know the
difference between a friend's criticism and an enemy's attack just as we know the difference
between the consequences of a real mistake and angry people filling up our mentions or something
that we still think is correct it doesn't matter if they appeal to the authority of numbers of
their large mob against your lone opinion they may derisively call you protagonist brain that's
only because they're all NPCs it doesn't matter if they appeal to the correct opinion or the proper
politics they will call you Nazi or fascist or alt-right or whatever else solely out of desperation
it might matter if they manage to worm their way into your IRL circles if they call your job or
your family or your partner it's certainly possible to lose those things and that's no joke but if you
remain on good terms with them if you let them know what's happening if you are a good honest
trustworthy person they will side with their experience of you over what a random online
person says any day and if they don't they probably weren't good for you in any case point
is while the overbearing officer might say if you have nothing to hide you have nothing to fear to
justify the state's unwarranted surveillance the Liberty focused argument regarding cancel culture
is actually this sayings inverse if you have nothing to fear then you have nothing to hide if
you are true in your convictions then show them no fear when the angry mob of people comes for you
and you're certain you've done no wrong then anchor yourself right beside the truth and weather
the storm like all storms it will pass thank you for watching my friends if you enjoyed this video
please feel free to share it around and do all of the other algorithm positive stuff the YouTube
engagement metrics like I don't know sub for more or hit up my patreon or subscribe star if you want
to keep it coming and be sure to stick around because I'm putting up a new video every single
day so I'll see you tomorrow I love you